I talked a little bit about the prayer flags. I mean, you all know. Every year I talk almost the
same thing.
And many of you who came here, I'm sure you heard this so often there. But I talk with fundamental
levels. Fundamental level, this prayer play is accumulated merit. Accumulated merit. And again,
in the Buddha teaching often said, "To reach enlightenment, we have to purify our
obscurations and habit dependence and accumulate the merit." So when we accumulate the merit,
that means the virtues, merit is, that incidentally removes the obscurations,
habit dependence. Particularly this prayer flag or the lung dai is very powerful in the teaching
method. It's connected with wind. In Buddhism, and particularly in Vedic teaching, why are we
really
going through all this samsara, all these emotions? Well, first of all, we're going in the samsara.
Second, well, in this samsara, why all these so many emotions, almost unstable emotions,
arising in our mind or our brains or wherever it is arising. Who is really activating that?
According to Vedic and Buddhism, it's wind. Our wind is, wind means moving force,
moving. So it's really moving all the time. Nonstop is moving. In the teaching often said,
mind itself is calm, peaceful, but mind is connected with wind and therefore mind is constantly
moving and restless and particularly for us with the lateral habit dependence. And then
it just drives us all different directions, the emotions, such as anger, jealous, heavy thought,
emotions, doubt and hesitation, the depression. I mean, it's really one after another. All
combination is that happening. So therefore, to remove that, to pacify that is so important.
And for those reasons, the teaching said, using the wind energy to purify, to calm down the wind,
negative winds. So this is like as a homeopathic systems, use the wind and to dispel and calm down
the bad wind. So therefore this lunga is very considerate, very powerful practices.
And then as I said, also it does. What it does, it accumulates the merits. Merits mean,
generally in Buddhism, often we heard that cause and condition and the result.
And we want to get nice, good results. That everybody loves a good result. We all love that.
But we have to think good cause, cause for that. Without a cause, there is no good result.
Or without a good cause, there is no good result. It really goes side by side, side by side.
Therefore, everyone to have the good result, we have to be smart with the good cause and conditions
.
So good cause and the condition is also no other than, again, our own mind. Our own mind
bring more vicious thoughts, more kindness, more compassion, more love and body. Somebody
tells, then whatever we do, if we accumulate the merit and that will also dispel the obscurations.
And particularly these lunga is a skillful means of practices in Vadiyana Buddhism.
Say that is really taught that because of this wind horse, when we're raising in the wind horse,
which what means actually raising of the wind horse, we're raising up the sleeping of our courage.
We're raising our sleeping commitment. We're raising our self-streams. Then at the bottom
down, we're raising up and glorifying our Buddha nature, our own nature, present our nature,
of the Buddha nature, you know, that really kind of dreamed by all those happy patterns,
unnecessary and unhealthy things. So, but we that this prayer is really known as
to raising up those all our courage, commitment, self-stream, confidence,
and that we need to raise up that. If we raise up the confidence and
glorious and courage and commitment, if we act with that, then the things, all the wishes really
comes, a current teaching, it will come slowly or maybe not so fast, but it will come that because
we are lined up toward that direction. And somehow we demolish it, discourage it, and kind of like
our self is lower down on the door and then disappointment, all those aiding, all one after
another, and then it really dragged down as our glorious, our successful, our kind of goodness,
everything is going down. So, therefore, this wind horse practice is along that in a little bit,
the raising of that qualities is so important. I thought, again, I said this raising of this
wind horse is courage, commitment, confidence, and self-streams, and visions, although what's
in the West called the dream, we really try to activate our future dreams, present dreams,
in the sense of the more calm and peaceful, beneficial ways. So, therefore, this raising
of the wind horse is so important. And then also this wind horse is all practice, the teachings of
the Buddha, Shakyamuni, Gurbama, Sambhava. Sambhava, so it's very, very special. And color is also
connected with our elements and fire, water, wind, earth, also in the teaching said. And what
blue is represented, connected to the sky elements or space. And then white is connected to the
water
elements. Yellow is connected to the earth elements. And red is more connected with the
fire elements. And then as well as the green is more connected with the wind element. So, we are
refining to put those colors and to refine our inner five qualities. That means also these five
elements are connected to the five wisdom and such as Dharma Datta wisdom, Meru like wisdom,
as well as the equanimity of wisdom, and all discrimination, awareness of wisdom,
and all a complicated wisdom. Five wisdom is connected. So, that means we're raising up these
energies and with a good heart or body to the thought. And then not just for us, but its benefit
for all beings really. And the teaching said it is so powerful because when you raise up the wind,
this prayer flies. That means according to the teaching said, wind printing this mantra,
these prayers each time it printed and their ketties that printed that malakus or printed
that particles of the syllables on the mantras ketties all over the world, it goes space to
everywhere. So therefore, it is also according to the teaching, it is really so benefited to the
old,
all the beings to the elements to everyone. And then also it is glorifying according to the
teaching is glorified and also it's kind of giving the courage and commitment and glorifying to all
the invisible mainstream. According to Buddhism, in a particular way and teaching, there are so
many
invisibles everywhere. And there are also really many times having a lot of difficulty challenges.
But when we do prayer, raise up the prayer, it becomes a great healing and a support to their
intention, their wishes to perform the good things. So they become more friendly, more harmonious,
more relaxed, and that will affect us too and bring more peace and happiness and harmonious
to the 80 or to the country, to the world. So I mean, it is really very, very special and very
powerful. And this time, many of those, as I say, it is the Buddha's teaching and Gurbama Sambha
and Vayayana also like those prayers and put all together and the symbols of their
four symbols. I think horse in the middle, horse in the middle, many times illustrations
put the horse in the middle, which symbolize this acid, bodhicata with the
unsleeping bodhicata or very actively engaging bodhicata to all beings. That's symbolized by
horse. In the Tibetan or Asian times, horse is mostly kind of like positive ones,
like quick ones. So therefore, even say the swept horse, the miracle horse, and the witch is that,
and that is carried into the witch, fulfilling jewels, fulfilling all the wishes. So that means
fulfilling all the wishes by the poor activities, pacifically, pacifying and increasing activities
to benefit of all the sentient beings. And there is lines, there is the Tagas, there is Garudas,
there is the Dagans. And these lines and the Dagans, sorry, lines and the Tagas symbolize
the more kind of power, majesty of the earth. And Garuda and the Dagans symbolize majesty of the
skies. So earth and the skies have become more archivicious and harmonious and kind of
re-stanting, re-activating the energy of the earth and the planet and the human beings.
Those are really symbolized. And pacifically, we talk that Tagas symbolize magnificent glories,
and the lines symbolize as a fearless state of the courage and fearless status. And then,
and the Dagans symbolize repetition in the frames, repetition in the frames of the renowned ones.
And Garuda symbolize the power and the speech, speed and quick, quick ones. So those are like
kind of two symbols, put those symbols with it, with the prayer and raising of the prayer fellows.
And those are really in the teaching state, so powerful and a beneficially and a particularly
in our time. It's also springtime and not just springtime, but according to the Buddhism, it is
now, now the miracle month, miracle month Sagadawada, where the bodhicakamini got enlightenment,
protect the bird, got enlightenment in Mahaparin nirvana, and all that happened. If we look
carefully,
this in the 12 activities of the Buddhas, at least five activities he performed in this,
during this month. And the first is birth, second is enlightenment, and the third is Mahaparin nir
vana.
But before enlightenment, always in the teaching state, one of the activities is walking,
traveling the bodhi, bodhi tree. That's happening this month. And while he is meditating under the
bodhi tree, and the next activity is called defeat in all the Mahas, all the Mahas, and that also
happened this month. Then enlightenment, and then Mahaparin nirvana. So it's this. And in a way,
all the activities of the Narmakaya, Sambokaya, also happened at these times. And kind of more
principle, Dharmakaya, meditating Dharmakaya, also in this happened. So among these two kyas,
Rupakaya and Dharmakaya, all that really in an act. Of course, the Buddha is always in that state.
There's no doubt, but external level every save. That all he demonstrated within this month. So
therefore, according to the Buddhism, is considered one of the very sacred and holiest month at
that
time. Any meditry activity will do. It will be multiplied with good intention, good medicine.
So it's powerful. That means it's meditry is multiplied. That means also is purifying
the negativities, our obscurations, obstacles. So therefore it is just really everywhere is so
powerful and so special. And again, thank you very much for again, participating and coming. Okay.
Thank you, everyone. Okay. And that's my brief kind of talk about that. And now we do that
blessings of this, this brave place. And then you all help us to raise up this. I mean, this is all
came so many efforts. Rama, Lorraine, and all the Sangha members really made this so much effort to
get these things. And we have that. So now really, you will all help and support to raise up. And
then
it's just the final goal of this brave place. So thank you again. Okay. Thank you, everyone. Thank
you.